[MUSIC] Conversion rate is also relevant when
using email marketing as a way of driving business. Many hotels use this technique
to stay in contact with and try to sell to their customers. These take many forms,
from e-mails promising special offers, to electronic newsletters highlighting
new developments in the company, to personalized greetings
to individual customers, celebrating special occasions such as
birthdays or wedding anniversaries. In fact the ease with which messages
can currently be created and sent, has given rise to one of the
greatest marketing challenges of our time, unsolicited bulk e-mail, or
what is better known as spam. Named after the pink luncheon meat,
spam has now reached epidemic proportions. Most consumers are drowning
under a tsunami of emails and are starting to react violently to
unsolicited and irrelevant messages. So what can you do to avoid
adding to this deluge, and more importantly,
making your email messages stand out? When considering email marketing, there are two key issues permission and
relevance. While it is possible to rent email
addresses from a variety of sources, such unsolicited email
is not only ineffective, in that it waste resources, but
may in fact be counter productive in that, and may annoy recipients enough for
them to actively avoid your product. To use email marketing effectively you
have to build your own database of email contacts, each of whom has
explicitly given you their permission to communicate to them and sell to them. Such a database can be built up in
a variety of different ways, from off-line sources such as loyalty programs or
competitions, to online sources such as keeping a keep-in-contact-with-us
form on your website. In each case, the guests should be asked
to opt-in, to tick a box indicating that they give you permission to send
them targeted communications. And also to specify the subjects about
which they would like to receive mailings and special offers. Given the amount of spam that
most people now receive, most consumers are becoming very
reluctant to surrender personal details. And having the ability to limit
the messages to those that are of interest to them, is important and should
help insure higher completion rates. Finally it's important to
respect your contact's wishes. If they indicate they do not want to
receive promotional messages from you, then you shouldn't send
them email marketing, even though you have
their contact details. If they only want to receive messages
about weekend golf packages, then just send them offers
relevant to this theme. Nothing is guaranteed to
upset the recipient more than masses of irrelevant
promotional emails. Even one or two off topic messages will
ensure that the offer that's genuinely of interest to them is sent
unread to the trashcan. However correctly targeted messages
can generate high response rates. Two percent is common, conversion rates
of over five percent are possible with well conceived, well targeted and
highly personal offers. To send promotional e-mails it's
important to use the dedicated e-mail marketing service. In addition to helping layout
the e-mail message itself, such tools also normally provide e-mail
list management and campaign reporting facilities to help manage the logistics
and evaluation of a campaign. The former typically helps automate
the process of administrating email lists composed of thousands of email addresses. Automatically removing recipients
who wish to unsubscribe, or email addresses that consistently bounce. Campaign reporting facilities help
you to measure the effectiveness of each promotional message. Giving you valuable information such as
the number of emails sent, the number, successfully delivered and given
appropriate facilities, the number opened, and perhaps even the value
of the resulting sales. Such data can be combined with data
from the company's website analytics, discussed later, to establish what works
and what doesn't work with your customers.